##2022/2/5

February is a month to look forward to those living in China. This is the month Lunar New Year usually falls into. People save most of their days off for this time of the year to spend time with family and friends. This year's February is especially special because this is the time when China hosts the Winter Olympics Games for the first time in history.
While the opening ceremony was as impressive as the 2008 Summer Olympics, there is little resemblance. The ongoing Covid and China's zero Covid policy mean no spectator is allowed, and the events are held in a bubble. Worse still, while China amazed the world with its debut performance in 2008, there is no more curiosity from the west this time but only hostility. The relationship between China and the western world has deteriorated over the years to the extent that the west is boycotting the event. With the absence of an international audience, the Olympics looks more like a domestic celebration this year.
Out of the many headlines that attract attention in China, one that followed the most is the news around Eileen Gu, an American Chinese ski star representing China despite her upbringing in the US. Young, beautiful, and exceptionally accomplished with a heritage in China, Eileen can justify her superstar status among the Chinese audience even without the world-champion title. Moreover, her unique backstory of ditching the US team for China makes her an ultimate China pride. In a way, Eilleen almost becomes the face of the Winter Olympics in many's minds. After all, the Chinese are not good at winter sports. As a result, many have paid little to no attention to Winter Olympics until this year.
It might be hard for western countries to understand the appeal of Eileen. People have asked me why the Chinese people feel proud of things that other Chinese did. In their minds, what others have accomplished has nothing to do with you, even though they are also Chinese. This comes down to the fundamental difference between collectivism and individualism. Western society centers around individuals, while the Chinese culture emphasizes community. That means social identities in China center around 'us' rather than 'me'L People will feel proud or ashamed for what others did or did not do; individuals' welfare can be sacrificed to better the collective goods. This notion should help you understand a lot of what's going on in China these days.




